README.md, before:

# SpatialVCS (Web Edition)

A spatial video control system that uses a mobile phone as a smart probe to scan the environment, detect objects (YOLO), understand them (Gemini), and map them into a semantic searchable memory.

## 🚀 Quick Start for Teammates (One-Click)

### Option A: One-Click Script (Recommended)
We have prepared `.command` scripts to automate everything.
1.  Double-click `setup_env.command` to install Python/Node dependencies and generate SSL certs.
2.  Double-click `start_app.command` to launch both backend and frontend.

### Option B: Manual Setup
If the scripts don't work, follow these steps:

### Prerequisites
- **Node.js** (v18+)
- **Python** (3.10+)
- **mkcert** (For SSL certificates)
  - macOS: `brew install mkcert nss`
  - Windows: `choco install mkcert`

### 1. Clone & Setup Backend
```bash
# Clone repository
git clone <repo-url>
cd gemini_toolkit

# Create Python Virtual Environment
python -m venv .venv
source .venv/bin/activate  # Windows: .venv\Scripts\activate

# Install Dependencies
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

### 2. Setup Frontend
```bash
cd frontend
npm install
```

### 3. Generate SSL Certificates (Crucial!)
Since we use the camera on mobile and connect via local network IP, we need HTTPS.
Run this in the root directory:

```bash
# Install CA
mkcert -install

# Generate certs for localhost and your local IP (e.g., 100.x.y.z or 192.168.x.y)
# REPLACE 100.104.16.42 WITH YOUR ACTUAL LAN IP!
mkcert -key-file key.pem -cert-file cert.pem localhost 127.0.0.1 ::1 100.104.16.42
```
*Note: If you don't have `mkcert`, the frontend will fallback to HTTP, but mobile camera might not work unless you use localhost.*

### 4. Run the System
You need two terminal windows.

**Terminal 1: Backend**
```bash
source .venv/bin/activate
uvicorn main:app --reload --host 0.0.0.0 --port 8000
```

**Terminal 2: Frontend**
```bash
cd frontend
npm run dev -- --host
```

### 5. Open & Connect
1.  **Mobile (Probe)**: Open `https://<YOUR-IP>:5173/probe` (Accept SSL warning).
    -   Click "CFG" -> Enter Gemini API Key.
    -   Click "START SCAN".
2.  **Desktop (Dashboard)**: Open `https://localhost:5173/dashboard`.
    -   Enter Gemini API Key.
    -   See live detections and XYZ coordinates.
    -   Search: "Where is the [object]?"

## Project Structure
- `main.py`: FastAPI backend entry point.
- `services/`: Logic for YOLO (`video_processor.py`) and Vector DB (`spatial_memory.py`).
- `frontend/src/components/`: React views (`ProbeView.jsx`, `DashboardView.jsx`).

## Troubleshooting
- **White Screen on Mobile?** Check console (remote debug). Ensure SSL certs are valid.
- **Search fails?** Ensure you entered the API Key in Settings ("CFG" button).
- **Backend 422 Error?** Fixed in latest version (scan_id is optional).

## Team Members
- **Hanson He** ([GitHub](https://github.com/HansonHe-UW), [LinkedIn](https://linkedin.com/in/shengyuan-he))
- **Yingxuan Wang** ([GitHub](https://github.com/magicalcatboss), [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/yingxuan-wang-uw))
- **Molly Xie** ([GitHub](https://github.com/molly-xie-uw), [LinkedIn](https://linkedin.com/in/molly-xie-uw))

Commit message:

Redesign README with premium intro, mission statement, and key features

README.md, after:

# SpatialVCS (Physical Spatial Version Control System)

> **Empowering the Unseen: Mapping Physical Reality into Searchable Memory.**

[![GitHub](https://img.shields.io/badge/GitHub-SpatialVCS-blue?logo=github)](https://github.com/magicalcatboss/SpatialVCS)
[![Status](https://img.shields.io/badge/Status-Active-success)](#)

## 🌟 Our Mission

In a world defined by three-dimensional space, navigating and tracking objects can be a significant challenge, especially for individuals with visual impairments. **SpatialVCS** is designed to rewrite this narrative by creating a bridge between physical reality and digital intelligence.

By leveraging advanced spatial mapping and AI-powered computer vision (YOLO and Gemini), we transform your mobile phone into a "smart probe." Our mission is to empower users to seamlessly track, search, and understand their surroundings, ensuring that no object is ever "lost" and every space is intuitively accessible.

## Why "SpatialVCS"?

- **Spatial (Space):** Transforming raw video data into precise XYZ coordinates and semantic understandings of the physical world.
- **Version (History):** Tracking changes over time, allowing users to query not just where an object is, but where it *was*.
- **Control (System):** Providing a robust, searchable management layer for physical objects and spatial data.

## ✨ Key Features

- **Real-time Object Tracking:** Seamlessly detect and map objects in 3D space using mobile sensors.
- **Natural Language Querying:** Ask "Where are my keys?" and get precise, AI-assisted locations.
- **Semantic Memory:** Powered by Gemini for deep understanding of object context and identity.
- **Access Control & Diffs:** Manage who sees what and see what has moved between scans.

---

## 🚀 Quick Start for Teammates (One-Click)

### Option A: One-Click Script (Recommended)
We have prepared `.command` scripts to automate everything.
1.  Double-click `setup_env.command` to install Python/Node dependencies and generate SSL certs.
2.  Double-click `start_app.command` to launch both backend and frontend.

### Option B: Manual Setup
If the scripts don't work, follow these steps:

### Prerequisites
- **Node.js** (v18+)
- **Python** (3.10+)
- **mkcert** (For SSL certificates)
  - macOS: `brew install mkcert nss`
  - Windows: `choco install mkcert`

### 1. Clone & Setup Backend
```bash
# Clone repository
git clone <repo-url>
cd gemini_toolkit

# Create Python Virtual Environment
python -m venv .venv
source .venv/bin/activate  # Windows: .venv\Scripts\activate

# Install Dependencies
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

### 2. Setup Frontend
```bash
cd frontend
npm install
```

### 3. Generate SSL Certificates (Crucial!)
Since we use the camera on mobile and connect via local network IP, we need HTTPS.
Run this in the root directory:

```bash
# Install CA
mkcert -install

# Generate certs for localhost and your local IP (e.g., 100.x.y.z or 192.168.x.y)
# REPLACE 100.104.16.42 WITH YOUR ACTUAL LAN IP!
mkcert -key-file key.pem -cert-file cert.pem localhost 127.0.0.1 ::1 100.104.16.42
```
*Note: If you don't have `mkcert`, the frontend will fallback to HTTP, but mobile camera might not work unless you use localhost.*

### 4. Run the System
You need two terminal windows.

**Terminal 1: Backend**
```bash
source .venv/bin/activate
uvicorn main:app --reload --host 0.0.0.0 --port 8000
```

**Terminal 2: Frontend**
```bash
cd frontend
npm run dev -- --host
```

### 5. Open & Connect
1.  **Mobile (Probe)**: Open `https://<YOUR-IP>:5173/probe` (Accept SSL warning).
    -   Click "CFG" -> Enter Gemini API Key.
    -   Click "START SCAN".
2.  **Desktop (Dashboard)**: Open `https://localhost:5173/dashboard`.
    -   Enter Gemini API Key.
    -   See live detections and XYZ coordinates.
    -   Search: "Where is the [object]?"

## Project Structure
- `main.py`: FastAPI backend entry point.
- `services/`: Logic for YOLO (`video_processor.py`) and Vector DB (`spatial_memory.py`).
- `frontend/src/components/`: React views (`ProbeView.jsx`, `DashboardView.jsx`).

## Troubleshooting
- **White Screen on Mobile?** Check console (remote debug). Ensure SSL certs are valid.
- **Search fails?** Ensure you entered the API Key in Settings ("CFG" button).
- **Backend 422 Error?** Fixed in latest version (scan_id is optional).

## Team Members
- **Hanson He** ([GitHub](https://github.com/HansonHe-UW), [LinkedIn](https://linkedin.com/in/shengyuan-he))
- **Yingxuan Wang** ([GitHub](https://github.com/magicalcatboss), [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/yingxuan-wang-uw))
- **Molly Xie** ([GitHub](https://github.com/molly-xie-uw), [LinkedIn](https://linkedin.com/in/molly-xie-uw))
